Attacks usually follow a standard process.
As you work to identify vulnerabilities,
understanding this process can help you know
how attackers take advantage of your weaknesses.
The first step is reconnaissance.
The threat actor conducts research to find as much information as possible,
on the target they want to attack,
including finding vulnerabilities and weaknesses.
During this phase, they might be collecting e-mail addresses,
identifying employees on social media networks,
finding public server information,
scanning for security holes,
and anything else that can help them learn about the target.
Next is weaponization.
Here, the threat actor creates or acquires the arsenal for attack, such as malware.
So during this phase,
they might be writing malware code or pulling
together existing malware resources for use.
The next step is delivery.
The weapon is launched against the target and the operation begins.
During this phase, they might send an e-mail that includes the malware,
or share the malware on a USB stick,
or setup a malicious website, or other options.
Then exploration begins.
So here the threat actor must take advantage of a vulnerability to gain access.
During this phase, they are leveraging the weapons that they've
created to exploit vulnerabilities.
So these might be exploits against software, hardware, or people.
Remember we talked earlier about those different kinds of attacks.
The sixth step is installation.
The threat actor might install a backdoor or
create ways to keep their access for the attack.
So here they may install a web shell on a web server,
or add services such as auto-run keys.
Next is command and control.
Here, the threat actor enables remote control and manipulation of the target.
So they may open two-way communication channel infrastructure,
likely over web, DNS, or e-mail protocols.
The last piece is action on objectives.
Here, the threat actor accomplishes their mission and completes the attack goal.
Finally, they do whatever they intended to do.
So for this part of the attack,
it could be stealing data,
escalating privileges, destroying a system,
or whatever their goal was,
and then it starts all over again.
It's important to know that a threat actor may go through
this cycle several times during one attack,
and it may not always happen in this direct sequence.
There can be loops and times when an attacker strikes out at one stage,
for example, and has to go back.
Now, you know the key steps in the cyber attack process.